Today, I'm hoping to get through two
primary goals for this workshop.
The first is that you'll be able
to walk away with a very solid
understanding of SVG, or
Scalar Vector Graphics.
And that you'll be able to use it to draw
your own custom shapes in the browser, and
then also be able to feel comfortable
reading and understanding the syntax.
And the second one is D3, and so
S3 is probably the de facto
JavaScript library for
creating data visualizations in the web.
And that's really great because it
has a lot of modules, and functions.
And it has pretty much almost
everything I've ever imagined
having to create data visualizations
on the web, it has support for.
but that also means that it's really
comprehensive, and it's really a lot,
and it can get really overwhelming
to try and look through the library.
And so today instead of trying and
probably failing to teach you all
the models in D3 and what they do,
I wanna teach you some of the most
fundamental parts of the library.
So that by the end of the workshop,
you'll have a good understanding
of those core principles, and
be able to kinda take that and
apply that to the rest of the library.
So I'm going to be teaching
out of this workshop,
sorry this notebook today,
it is an observable notebook and
hopefully you'll have
the link to it in the chat.
But if not, you can find it at
observablehq.com/@sxywu, and
it should hopefully be
under the collection,
workshop introduction to D3.
And it'd be pretty important
to have this workshop so
that we can go through it together.
There's a lot of exercises in here and
kind of like hands on play.
And you can either just play directly
with the notebooks I've provided or
you can also you can sign on
with your GitHub account,
and then forking and then I think and
then you can play with
it that way I think.
I haven't tried the forking,
but that should work.
Before we get on with the course,
I wanted to introduce myself a little bit.
Hi, my name is Shirley, I call myself
an independent creator
of data visualizations,
and what that means is just
that I'm self employed and
I work with a variety of clients,
to help them tell stories with their data.
So I almost always work with
them through the whole process,
usually they'll have some sort of
a dataset that they're looking
to either tell a story with visually,
or try to make sense of.
So I'll work with them to
do the data analysis, and
the design and prototyping,
and finally the code.
But my background where I have the most of
my training is in software engineering.
I've been using D3 since 2012, and
I've been using D3 with
various different frameworks.
For that same amount of time I
started with backbone went to react,
and now I use view with D3.
And I've also been teaching D3 and
data visualization courses since 2014.
So, I have a few other different
workshops that I'll elaborate on
at the end of this workshop as
possible next steps so yeah.
So for today,
what I want us to do together is,
I always think it's really,
really fun when we
have this overarching project
that we can do together.
So, this is a project that I
have called film flowers and
the original project, Looks like this.
And it is the top summer
blockbusters of the past two and
a half decades, reimagined as flowers.
So, each of these flowers
represent a movie and,
the petal shapes are parental
guidance ratings.
The colors are genres, and the number
of petals is the number of votes on IMDb.
And the size of the flower is
the IMDb rating out of 10.
And I always,
always show this every time but,
some of my favorites in here is like,
I think Dark Knight Rises is
really pretty, I love Harry Potter,
there's Inception.
And then we show this at every
conference that I give this talk,
or that I show this project, but
my absolute favorite is Batman and
Robin 1997 Batman and
Robin because of how tiny and cute it is.
Yeah so this is the project that we're
going to recreate in part today.
And so,
this is the summer blockbuster movies,
and so I recommend you try and
click on the carrot open
up some of these objects,
take a look at what the data looks like.
This is a little bit of a cleaned
up version of the raw data I had,
but it includes all of the data
that we need for today.
And then, this is the visualization of
flowers that we're going to get to.
And you can see that for
themes we have a mapping,
like I said earlier of parental guidance
readings to the type of flower petal.
Number of IMDb votes to
the number of petals, and
rating out of 10 to the size and
the movie genre to the color of petals.
And the only slight bit of difference
is that whereas in my project I show
all of the movie genres,
today we're going to only be coloring by,
the first to list in the new genre.
So that would be the only difference
between the project I just showed, and
what we're going to do today.